1. What is the difference between a staff and a stave in music notation?
   a) There is no difference - they are the same thing
   b) A staff has 4 lines while a stave has 5 lines
   c) A staff is used for vocal music while a stave is for instrumental music
   d) A staff is horizontal while a stave is vertical

2. How many spaces are there between the lines of a staff?
   a) 3 spaces
   b) 4 spaces
   c) 5 spaces
   d) 6 spaces

3. When a note is written on a line of the staff, where does the line pass through the note?
   a) The top of the note
   b) The bottom of the note
   c) The center of the note
   d) The left side of the note

4. What determines the pitch of a note on the staff?
   a) The size of the note
   b) The color of the note
   c) The position of the note (higher or lower)
   d) The shape of the note

5. How are notes that are written above each other on the staff played?
   a) They are played one after another
   b) They are played at the same time
   c) They are played in reverse order
   d) They are played randomly

6. What are ledger lines used for?
   a) To connect different staves
   b) To extend the staff for notes that are too high or low
   c) To indicate the end of a musical phrase
   d) To show the time signature

7. How are the lines and spaces of the staff counted?
   a) From top to bottom
   b) From bottom to top
   c) From left to right
   d) From right to left

8. What is the correct way to read notes on a staff?
   a) From right to left
   b) From top to bottom
   c) From left to right
   d) From bottom to top

9. When a note is written in a space of the staff, how does it appear?
   a) The note is split by the space
   b) The note fills the entire space
   c) The note is written above the space
   d) The note is written below the space

10. What is the plural form of both "staff" and "stave"?
    a) staffs and staves
    b) staves
    c) staffs
    d) staffes

[Image: The staff - showing five horizontal lines]
[Image: Notes in the staff - showing notes on lines and spaces]
[Image: Note reading - showing notes played from left to right and simultaneously]
[Image: Ledger lines - showing notes above and below the staff]
[Image: Lines and spaces in the staff - showing counting from bottom to top] 